NOTICE TO STUDENTS ON END SEMESTER EXAMINATIONS
1. As announced by the Vice Chancellor in his address to the students on 16 June 2020, in
order to avoid further undue delay created by COVID-19 Pandemic in conducting
examinations and evaluation of the outcomes of the courses of the even semester and odd
trimester of the academic year 2019-20, and as per the provisions of the “Regulation for
Online End Semester Examinations 2020” of the University, End Semester
Examinations (ESE)/End Trimester Examinations (ETE) will be held online for nonfinal year students of the academic year 2019-20 from 13 July 2020.
2. The online examination platform will enable students to take the examination in the
safety of their homes/places of current residence, without having to travel to the campus.
3. The students who are eligible to take the examinations as per the rules applicable for the
academic year 2019-20, and those desirous of taking the online examinations
need to register in their respective Knowledge Pro (KP) ERP student login account with
an Online Examination Registration fee of Rs 500.
4. In order to ease the preparation for the examinations, the online examinations in general
will be based on the course syllabus taught after the mid-semester examinations.
Application-based questions may necessitate an understanding of the entire course
curriculum, in which case the departments will inform the students in advance through
email.
5. The duration of the examinations will be for two hours. However, there will be additional
20-30 minutes time given to accommodate varying typing ability, and where applicable,
time needed to upload the scanned copies of the written answers.
6. In general, the answers need to be typed on the examination platform. Where graphs,
drawing etc are involved there is an option to upload the scanned copies of the written
answers onto the examination platform.
7. In order to familiarise the students with the online examination platform, a mock-test
will be conducted in advance.
8. The examinations will be proctored by the faculty members.
9. Since this would be an online and live examination, the students are expected to ensure
stable connectivity throughout the duration of the examination.
10. In order to give time for the revision of course learning, there will be no online classes for
students from 1 July. The online classes will resume after the completion of online
examinations.
11. Students whose family cannot afford the one-time Online Examination Registration Fee
of Rs 500, can make an email request to their class teachers of the academic year 2019-
20. The Class teachers will forward the request to the Official concerned for approval
with their comments and recommendations. Based on the comments, the Office of
Examinations will take an independent decision on the Registration Fee
Concession/Exemption.
12. Withdrawal from a course examination:
a. As per Clause 3.iii of the “Regulation for Online End Semester Examinations 2020” 
the students can withdraw from any of the course examinations either due to their
inability to complete the ‘Online’ Examination due to disruption of connectivity or
for such other technical reasons and/or for any personal reasons or their inability
to perform to the desired level due to any reason.
b. In order to withdraw from an already attempted course examination, after the end
of that examination, a request should be made in the ‘Online Exam Withdrawal
Form’ available in the student Knowledge Pro (KP) ERP login, within 60 minutes of
the completion of the examination with reasons for the withdrawal.
c. A request for the withdrawal sent 60 minutes after the expiry of the course
examination will be treated as invalid and the student will be evaluated as per the
performance in the examination.
d. The students with a valid withdrawal will have a provision to take a retest in the
courses withdrawn which will be treated as a fresh attempt.
13. Grievances related to online examinations can be submitted by the aggrieved students in
the KP Student Login where a provision to submit such grievances is created.
14. Further information, guidelines and schedule of the Online Examinations will be
communicated to the students on the University Website/KP/thorough Emails by the
Office of Examinations
15. Face to face examinations:
a. On campus End Semester Examinations (ESE)/End Trimester Examinations (ETE)
for non-final year students of the academic year 2019-20 will be held as and when
the Central and Local governments permit the conduct of regular face-to-face classes
and when the University feels it safe to conduct examinations on the campus.
b. In order to maintain similarity in standards of testing with the online examinations
starting 13 July 2020, these on campus examinations will also be for two hours and
online in the computers labs of the University with buffer time of 20-30 minutes to
accommodate typing ease and uploading options.
c. There will be no fee charged for these on-campus examinations.
d. However, since there is uncertainty on when and how long it will take to conduct the
on campus examinations, it is advised that all the non-final year students take the
online examination conducted from 13 July 2020. Further, a long gap in taking the
examinations may pose its own challenges in the familiarity of the learnings of the
courses.
Sd/-
 Registra
CHRIST (Deemed to be University), Bangalore 560029 Website: christuniversity.in
Tel: +91 80 40129100 Fax: +91 80 40129000 Email: registrar@christuniversity.in
